So now that we've talked about
the structure and functionality
of the ImageStreamGang,
let's take a look
at how to visualize
its behavior.
And so I'm going to
kind of show you how
parallel streams are applied.
First we're going to
show how to visualize
the behavior, and then, of
course, in the next lesson,
we're going to come back and
actually show you the code.
This particular implementation
enhances a previous solution
that I also have on
my GitHub repository
called the
ImageTaskGang solution.
And this solution
does not use streams.
Instead, it uses
various executor service
implementations, such as the
ExecutorCompletionService.
So it's a Java--
it's an object-oriented
Java solution, as opposed
to a functional Java solution
using the more modern features.
So this particular app
uses a parallel stream
with blocking I/O.
Obviously it has
to block when it downloads the
images from across the network.
And it also would end
up having to block
when it writes the images
that have been transformed out
to the files on the device.
It also combines object-oriented
and functional programming
features.
And this is really important,
I think, to embrace.
So let's take a look
at how this works.
So the first thing it
does is it goes ahead
and will get a list of URLs.
And that list of URLs
will ignore cached images.
So if you've already
downloaded an image before,
we're going to ignore it.
And I'll show you how
that works in just a bit.
For all the images that
are not already cached,
we're going to download them.
And all that will take place
in parallel, of course.
And we'll be using
the ForkJoinPool
to do all the
parallel downloads.
As the downloads
complete, then they
will be synchronously
applied to a bunch of filters
that will transform each image
by applying the image filtering
algorithms that are
configured into the app.
And there could be
a bunch of them.
The filtered images
that we end up with
will then be stored
in the file system--
so there's some more
examples of blocking I/O,
we have to write the
filtered images out
to the file system, which,
depending on the file system,
could be fast or slow.
And then finally, when
everything is said and done,
we'll be able to display
the images to the user
by popping up some
Android activity that
has a nice browsing capability.
So the cool thing about this
is, if you read the description
of the design intent-- right?
The design intent is,
ignore cached images,
download non-cached images,
apply a list of filters to each
image, store the filtered
images in the file system,
display the images to the user--
that's pretty much
almost one to one
what's going on in
our parallel stream
that you see on the
right hand side.
And that's a very
reassuring thing,
because it means that the
design intent is reflected
in the implementation.
Why is this important?
Because many times,
when we write code,
the actual implementation
that defines the computations
looks nothing whatsoever
like the design intent.
There's a huge gap,
a huge mismatch,
between what you're trying to
do, what your requirements say
you're doing, what
you're trying to design,
and the computations
that actually implement
the intent of that design.
But the cool thing about
the parallel streams model
is it's very, very
convenient, and very, very
synergistic between those
two levels of abstraction.
So let's just kind
of look at this
so we're going to basically
take a list of images--
URLs, we're going to
take a list of image URLs
that come in to the
program, wherever
they come from-- from the user,
or from a file, or whatnot.
And we convert these things
into a parallel stream.
So now we've got
a bunch of things
that could run in parallel.
That creates a stream of URLs.
We then go ahead and we'll run
that stream of URLs through
the filter()
intermediate operation.
And if there's any URLs that are
already present on the device,
because we've
downloaded them before,
we're just going to ignore them.
So things that have been cached
before we're going to ignore.
So we're going to
filter out anything
that we've already seen.
Filter() will ignore
the cached images.
We then end up with a stream
of non-cached image URLs.
We then connect that
into the map() operation.
So we input a stream of
non-cached image URLs
into map().
Map() then goes ahead and
applies the blocking download
method reference
to every image URL.
And that will turn
around and download
all the non-cached images in
parallel, which will output
a stream of downloaded images.
Notice all these
calls are synchronous.
They're blocking
until they're done
and then returning
their results.
The downloaded images stream
is then connected into the next
stage in the pipeline, which
is the flatMap() intermediate
operation.
And what flatMap() is going to
do is it's going to take each
image that it receives, which
has already been downloaded,
and in parallel it will go
ahead and apply a bunch of image
filters to transform that image.
So for every filter it will
create a new transformed image,
and it'll go ahead and
store that filtered image--
or those filtered images,
because there could
be multiple filters to apply--
in the file system.
And what that then
generates is a stream
of filtered and stored images.
And that stream of filtered
and stored images will then be
connected into collect().
So we get the stream of
input into collect().
And as you all know--
because we've talked about
this countless times now,
or many times--
collect() will go ahead and
trigger the intermediate
operation processing.
And in this
particular case, it's
going to end up creating a list
of filtered and stored images.
So hopefully taking a
look at this visualization
gives you a pretty good idea of
what's actually taking place.
You can see how we start out
with a list of URLs, which
turns into a stream
of URLs, which
gets filtered to a potentially
smaller stream of URLs.
We then turn those
things into images,
so you can see the changes
occur with the types,
and then once again
we change the types--
or not so much
changed the types,
but we change the contents
of what the images contain.
And those things
get collected back
into a list, which will be
an ArrayList in this case.
So that just kind of shows
you how all the various stages
and steps work together.
The Java streams framework-- or
more specifically the parallel
streams variant of the
Java streams framework--
orchestrates all of these steps
to run together in parallel.
Naturally, under
the hood, of course,
we know that other
things are at play.
There are Spliterators,
there's collectors--
in this case a
non-concurrent collector--
there naturally will be
various tasks running around
in the ForkJoinPool, the
common ForkJointPool.
But all of those things
are hidden from you.
You just write this
code and magic happens,
and you get these
great speed-ups
with very little
effort on your part.